Hello, and welcome back.
In this video, what we're going to do, is
we're going to show a different technique
of imaging painting that is based on
calculus of variations.
Instead of starting with a partial
differential equation from the very
beginning, we're going to start with an
energy formulation that through the
Euler–Lagrange is going to be transformed
into a differential equation.
Now, we're going to keep the same
concepts that we learned before.
If we have a region of missing
information.
We're going to try to kind of mold in the
continuation of the edges as we represent
here, and then fill in the color.
When I do both of them at the same time,
as we are going to see in a second, but
we want to keep that important concept
of.
Continuing edges and then.
Letting the color flow in, as we say, as
water.
Actually, why do I say as water?
Because some of these equations are very
related to the same type of mathematical
equations that model, the motion of
fluids and gases in nature.
So this analogy of letting the pixel
values.
Flowing like water is not an artificial
analogy because it is the same type of
equations what we are doing here are
transport equations.
So we are going to basically derive a
variation and formulation that does this
type of process.
Now, let us start by assuming that
somebody came and already told us the
boundaries.
Somebody basically say, Hey, I don't know
really what's happened in there.
But here are the boundaries.
I'm going to extend them for you.
And basically, it has given us the
normalized gradient at every single pixel
inside the region that we need to
inpaint.
Remember, the normalized gradient, we
basically say that theta is the gradient.
Divided by its magnitude.
Now, we have to be a bit careful when the
magnitude is zero.
They say there is no gradient.
So, we basically leave that aside for the
second.
So, this is what we were giving.
Somebody gave us basically the gradient.
And if you pluck that here, you get
gradient square divided by gradient which
is equal to gradient.
And the goal now is to find that image
inside the region to be impainted.
That is consistent with this gradient.
And we do that in a variation and
formulation.
We basically are going to optimize for
the image.
In such a way that is consistent with the
gradient that we were given.
That consistency is exactly what we have
here.
When the image holds this, This, this
becomes zero and then what's inside here
is as small as possible.
Once again the basic idea is you find an
image, then when you take its gradient
and you normalize it you get what was
given to you.
So you look for consistency.
And the interval is inside the region to
be painted and a small band around it.
Where, basically we take the information
to propagate in, and in that band we have
the real image, nurtures the even
gradients, the real image.
And that's why, as I said before, you
basically optimize in the region, and as,
in the region to be impainted and a small
band around it.
So, this is your equation.
You're looking for consistency of the
image with basically.
The gradients that you were given.
The Euler-Lagrange of this, is what we
have, here.
That's the Euler-Lagrange of this
equation and, as we have seen many times,
we basically deform the image in time
according to the Euler-Lagrange and then
we go to steady state.
And we get to steadystate, we basical
that the divergence, remember this is for
divergence of, this vector.
We get, basically the divergense of the
normalize image is equal to the
divergence of the, graudience, the
normalized graudience that we were giving
and then we got an image that is
consistent with the information that we
were given.
That's exactly what we wanted.
Now, if we do that, for example for this
image We basic remove the I.
There's no I here.
We block it.
But remember somebody gave us the
gradients, the normalized gradients which
is equivalent to give us basically the
edges.
And then we can recover.
The grade values are not exactly as we
want them.
We are going to repair that very soon.
But you can observe the basic geometry
here.
And that's because somebody gave us
theta.
Somebody gave us the normalized gradient.
That's a first step.
Now, we need to basically take those
normalized gradients, because in real
scenario we don't have nothing in there.
And here is the complete equation so.
[SOUND].
Here is what we have before, we had
before.
Somebody gave us theta, we basically
recover an image that is consistent with
theta.
This is this term.
What this term is doing.
Is exactly helping us to propagate the
gradients inside the region to be
inpainted.
I'm going to explain that more in just
one second.
Again the integral is as before in this
same region and A, B and C are just some
parameters that control basically the
weight between these two terms.
And we are minimizing not only over
theta.
Not, sorry, not on the over I, as within
the previous slide, we also normalize
over theta.
If we had theta, this is all we need, but
here is, we're building the edges, and
the image consistent with the edges, at
the same time.
There, here is the consistency.
And here is building the edges.
And here, what we have is as most
continuation of edges.
As we saw, as we learn from professional
restorators.
Let as look at this turn for a second.
If theta is the normalized gradient.
As we write it here.
What is the divergence of this?
We saw that in the previous week.
What's the divergence of the normalized
gradient?
Let's think for a second.
That's the curvature.
This term.
Is curvature.
Of what?
Of the leg lines of my image, which are
kind of edges.
So we're saying.
Propagate the edges inside in such a way
that the curvature doesn't go crazy.
If it, if the curvature basically goes
crazy, then we're going to be paying a
lot of penalty for that.
P is a parameter that says, how much
penalty do we want to pay for that?
So basically, we're doing a smooth
propagation of edges in such a way that
the curvature is relatively mild inside,
and at the same time, we're recovering an
image that is consistent with those edges
that we're propagating.
This term is to make everything even
smoother and more regular, and so it has
a mathematical justification.
With this term, this compete formulation
you can prove a lot of beautiful math for
it and without a term, the things become
a bit more difficult and are what is
called ill-posed.
They're not very well defined.
So it's a technical term that we add to
make this equation actually look okay.
Now, how do we solve this?
Euler-Lagrange equations.
And now we have two unknowns, theta and
the image.
It's exactly the same, you compute the
Euler-Lagrange, like, I is constant, you
compute all the Euler-Lagrange for theta,
that gives you one equation.
And then you keep theta constant and you
compute Euler-Lagrange for I that gives
you the second equation.
So instead of one equation as we have
before when we knew theta, you get two
equations.
One that is evolving eye, the other that
is evolving feet.
And you are solving both of them at the
same time.
So it's like fixing one for a short time,
solving for the other, fixing the other,
solving for one of them.
then you iterate.
And you get this.
Copy.
Partial differential equation on both I
and theta, but it is very elegant,
because we can think about what we want,
and with a sign of variation of
formulation that, that achieves that for
us.
We want the image to be consistent with
the edges.
We've assigned that.
We want the edges to continue smoothly.
We know smoothness is curvature.
We design for that.
We put that into an energy that penalizes
for not achieving what we want and then
we compute the Euler-Lagrange and we
solve that equation.
Let us see some examples.
Again we start by artificial examples, so
we block these line.
So basically, this is what we get.
By blocking it, and by running this
equation we'll smoothly continue it.
A very nice continuation.
Similar example as we had before, we
block this and we get a smooth and nice
continuation of this.
We do the same here.
We block this cross and we get a smooth
continuation.
Now you may ask: why did we get a smooth
continuation of the bright and not the
dark?
Now this is a deterministic algorithm
when you implement it, basically it chose
one over the other.
There's no way for the algorithm to know
which one is the one that you might want.
Here we have the famous at symbol.
We block it and look.
We get not the add symbol, we get this.
Now, this is examples like the chair I
show in the very beginning of this week.
The computer doesn't know the @ symbol.
The computer is just looking for the
minimal energy to complete.
Now the completion, the feeling that
painting is beautiful is perfectly fine.
Is not the add symbol we started.
But remember imaging painting is trying
to give you back something that looks
okay and there's no way for the computer
to know that what you wanted is to get
back the @ symbol, not in this fashion.
So you get a perfectly fine, actually
this has lower energy according to the
energy that we just defined that the @
symbol and that's why it went into that
one.
So perfectly fine, but without this
higher level information of the @ symbol
which cannot be achieved with these type
of local algorithms for inpainting.
It works nice for artificial examples.
Let's see if he works for real ones.
Here, there is a nice picture of Groucho
Marx.
And then we have regions that we want to
in paint.
Here, we kind of see an evolution.
And this is the result.
A nice recover along filling in along
those regions.
Another example as we have seen before,
we have letters and we get the letters
removed.
So the basic image pictures are flowing
in by solving this variational
formulation.
Now, those are simple examples.
And I want to conclude these examples
with going back to the very beginning
when I say.
We are in painting, structure, and
colors.
What about kind of, the noise, the
granularity of the image?
This is one way of doing that, and even
going beyond that.
So you start from an image.
And these are the regions that we want to
in paint.
You first take this image and decompose
in two parts.
One, and I'm going to say in second how
we do that.
Let me just explain the diagram first.
One, it's like this was smooth.
It has no granularity.
No texture at all.
And the others were all the texture has
done.
Okay?
Now you in paint the structure part with
the techniques I just mentioned to you.
You basically continue the boundaries and
continue these flat colors inside.
And you get a very beautiful
continuation.
The texture, the granularity, you use a
technique that is designed to impend
granularity.
We're going to explain that technique
actually in the next video.
So see for example how here the texture
has been very nicely continued.
Here.
And then you go and add those two again.
And you get that great reconstruction
that has this structure continue.
Has the colors continue.
Has also the texture and the granularity
continue.
Here's the structure and the colors.
Here is the texture.
How do we do this decomposition?
There are a few techniques out there that
follow something developed by Yves Meyer.
Just to give one example and we get this
decomposition into something which is
pitch-wise smooth, so it has not a lot of
oscillations and variations and something
that has all the oscillations and
variations.
You in paint here with the techniques
that I just showed to you.
Either the partial differential equations
base one.
Or the variational one, for example.
You in painted texture.
Here, the granularity was something we
are going to discuss next.
Which is kind of a cut and paste type of
technique.
And then you add them back.
And you get a beautiful reconstruction.
And you get everything in one image.
So in the next video I'm going to talk a
bit more about this type of cut and paste
technique.
You actually already know it.
And I'm going to remind you what it is in
the next video.
I'm looking forward to to that.
Thank you very much.